as we work our way through this method
I'm gonna go back one slide so that we
can consult this cells jump it so we
need to change your move lattice I in AD
last so that it can handle the array
getting too big so we'll have a little
special case here and we'll say if okay
what was it size equals items dot length
okay good to have that very concretely
in our mind then we need to do a few
things first we need to create a new
array which I'll call a and it's gonna
be a new into a which is gonna be of
size size plus one all right so there we
go then what we're gonna do is copy
everything over you could also use a
loop if you wanted but I'm gonna copy
everything over using systems out array
copy what should we do well we need to
copy from the old items array starting
at position zero to the new array a
starting at position zero and then
finally we need to say how many items
and it's going to be sized items so
there are hundred things we need to copy
now you'll notice that IntelliJ here has
helpfully told us what the source and
destination positions are that could be
in theory handy though the coloring I
have setup is pretty impossible to read
oh well alright next up we've now copied
the items over so at this point we now
need to change items to be equal to a
and then a size plus equals one all this
stuff happens down here so this will
handle putting the new item in the last
position and this will increase the size
so these last two steps are sorry these
two steps here were already part of our
code so at this point we now have an add
last method that should work properly
now in the real world so if I was doing
any real programming at all I would run
some kind of tests in fact I have this
entire test file but because we haven't
really talked about it we will net like
we will next lecture I'm not gonna run
it now but what I want to warn you is
that the way I've been programming in
this lecture is in some ways a bad
example because I've been riding giant
blobs of code without doing any testing
and if you do the same thing on project
1a you'll probably have a sad time so
I'll give you some tips in the next
lecture about better incremental
development but for the purposes of this
lecture for this narrative for something
that I've practiced time and time again
chances are I probably haven't messed up
anything too severely but if I do then I
guess I'll
we record one of these videos alright so
this right here is a perfectly wonderful
ad last method though I'm gonna make one
change to this to make my code a little
nicer and more organized so specifically
I'm gonna note that this whole process
here this resizing process could
actually be made into its own method so
I'm gonna do that because I just think
it is nicer okay so I'm gonna say
resizes the underlying array to the
target capacity so what its gonna look
like and that's gonna be a private void
method called resize and takes a
capacity argument and this codes all
gonna do the resize now instead of being
size plus 1 this version is going to
resize to some arbitrary capacity just a
little nicer and that's it okay so I now
made a resize method and so here when I
went to act when I run out of room oops
I messed up slightly this if statement
should not be inside resize we're gonna
move in and add last so if the size is
equal to items dot length then we will
say resize to size plus 1 ok that's just
the way I've chosen to organize my code
you may disagree ok so at this point
we've now written an ADD last method we
have a resize method that keeps things
going let's fix our indentation we could
use the IntelliJ shortcut but I did it
manually and there we go we now have
code that adds to the array and now the
array is infinitely extensible it
actually does the thing it's supposed to
do all right so let's debrief this code
a little bit so our ad last method we
said if size is equal to items dot
length do all this stuff though we
showed that an alternate approach is to
say if the size is equal to items that
link then use a special resize function
now why would this be better this is
something that you could actually test
separately you could write tests you
could use the visualizer to actually
look and see what it's doing and by
breaking your code into little tiny
pieces it just makes it much easier to
maintain to understand this is easier to
read as of another programmer who wants
to maintain the a list class so I think
this approach is better but you might
have done something like this after
you've done project 1a we're actually
gonna have
a little thing in lab where I'll let you
discuss implementations with each other
and hopefully you can find other little
tricks like that that you might have
missed or others might have come up with